Hello Ms. Ch√© and Mr. Nguyen,

Thank you for your email and questions. All figures referred to below
can be found at https://cloud.emlondon.ca/s/oiPjpx6kogXR66P .

1. I have inserted the correct address for Dr. Gucciardo. glia.com is a
different entity.

2. Regarding biocompatibility, the item that is 3D printed is the
adapter between the mask and the non-invasive ventilation (aka Adapter).
The material we are utilizing is Acrylonitrile Butadiene Styrene,
commonly known as ABS. This is the material that is used in Lego, for
example.

We reviewed ISO 10993-1. This ISO applies to the 3M AV2000 mask we use,
which is in wide and common use. Any information about this mask will be
provided to you upon request. ISO 10993-1 does not appear to directly
apply to the 3M gasket and 3D printed adapter.

Section 3.11 puts our adapter (and overall device) within the scope of
10993-1 by considering it a medical device with direct (3M AV2000 mask)
and indirect contact (Adapter and Gasket).

However, 5.1 redirects us to 18562 (1-4) for gas pathway devices, which
applies to the 3D printed adapter and 3M gasket.

Of note, we reviewed ISOs 10993-4 and 10993-5 and found that they do not
apply to this device. We also reviewed ISOs 18190, 80601-2 (79, 80), and
17510 and have incorporated them into the development of this device.

As per Figure 1 of ISO 18562-1, our risk assessment identified two areas
of concern:

2.a. The printing process and subsequent i) biocontamination and ii)
porosity of the device

2.a.i) Regarding biocontamination, we concluded that data exist and
reviewed the whitepaper entitled "Sterilization of FDM-Manufactured
Parts" [1] by Stratasys, the world's foremost manufacturer of 3D
printers and 3D printed medical equipment. This study concluded that
"based on the results obtained in this paper, it
 appears that each of the four methods tested are
 successful in sterilizing these materials." Concerns were raised with
one of the methods (autoclave heating) regarding ABS's integrity.
However, the other three methods achieved full sterilization.

2.a.ii) Regarding porosity, we concluded that data do not exist. We
created a test rig in the laboratory and tested the device for porosity
using various print settings. Figures 1a-c (see link above) show photos
of the test set up in which pressurized air far exceeding operating
standards was put through the device to test porosity. No porosity was
found in the adapter at pressures up to and far exceeding operating
pressures.

2.b. The ABS being used as a material.


ABS is a commonly used material in all parts of food, drug, and medical
device industry that is well-accepted as being biocompatible. Our
evaluation plan concluded that data exist for its biocompatibility. We
reviewed several resources [2-6] and the MSDS[7], and concluded that ABS
is a safe, biocompatible and inert material for gas exchange. It is
vulnerable to solvents such as acetone which are not expected to be used
in a hospital environment. It is otherwise inert. It is compatible with
common cleaning methodologies in hospitals such as gluteraldehyde, vapor
phase hydrogen peroxide and 1-minute bleach bath.

3. Regarding the patient's ability to sleep and communicate, clearly
these are impeded by the use of any mask. However, this mask should not
impede the ability of patients to sleep or communicate more than other
masks. We have already begun clinical trials on this mask, and patients
are comprehensible while wearing the mask and are easy to assess for
clinical status and concern.

Regarding the patient's ability to remove the mask without assistance,
the device contains a release strap that will quickly release the mask
from a patient's face. The colour of this strap is bright red. I have
attached video of the release mechanism as Figure 2 (see link above).
Please note that in this engineering demonstration, the strap is black
in colour whereas on the product it is bright red.

4. Regarding the rebreathing of carbon dioxide, the device has two
configurations: single limb and dual limb ventilation. In a single limb
setup, the device must be attached to an exhalation port and an
anti-asphyxiation valve within the circuit. The combined exhalation port
anti-asphyxiation valve being used is the "ResMed 24991 Leak Valve". An
example single limb setup would be with a ResMed Stellar noninvasive
ventilator machine.

In a dual limb setup, the second limb provides the exhaust and
anti-asphyxiation capability routinely and without any additional valves
or ports. An example dual limb setup would be the Hamilton Medical C1.


5. Regarding the expired breath following filtration by a viral filter,
it is expired to the room, as it is considered decontaminated by the
viral filter. This is the routine method used by all non-invasive
ventilators.

I hope this answers all of your questions. Please do not hesitate to
raise any further questions.

Thank you,

Tarek : )

----
Tarek Loubani, BSc(Hon), MD, CCFP (EM)
Consultant, Department of Emergency medicine
London Health Sciences Centre

Associate Professor, Department of Medicine
Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry
University of Western Ontario

Medical Director
Glia


References:

1.
http://www.stratasys.com/-/media/files/white-papers-new/wp_fdm_sterilization_en_0915-web.pdf

2.
https://www.hcltech.com/sites/default/files/an_overview_of_the_plastic_material_selection_process_for_medical_devices.pdf

3.
https://omnexus.specialchem.com/selection-guide/acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene-abs-plastic

4. https://www.ensingerplastics.com/en-us/shapes/biocompatible-medical-grade

5. https://amfg.ai/2018/06/29/abs-plastic-3d-printing-all-you-need-to-know/

6.
https://3dprintingcenter.net/2020/03/29/spectrum-filaments-introduces-medical-materials-to-the-offer-including-biocompatible-abs/

7. https://www.tapplastics.com/uploads/pdf/MSDS%20ABS.pdf
